Well, I did not update the website for a while, so the libraries became so outdated that I found it easier to recreate the website from scratch.
Quite a lot has happened since my first post: I changed several jobs, including writing Rust professionally, turned 30, got into a relationship, moved to the Netherlands, and met a lot of great people there, russia attacked my country, developed an addiction to YouTube, turned 33, started taking antidepressants, so much stuff!
Time passed, I was growing psychologically, patching my traumas, fixing life, etc, and among other things, I decided that I needed a place to share my creations with the world. Many people are doing it on Instagram or YouTube, however, I deeply despise Instagram, don’t like X (Twitter) and YouTube assumes work with video which I don’t find interesting at the moment. Then I recalled that I have such a place (this) so I wanted to update the website to make blogging easier than it is now, but it turned out that the libraries I used evolved so much and made so many breaking changes that it was easier to rewrite it completely from scratch. So I did. 🙂
In the current implementation, the website uses a single hand-written static CSS file, and articles are stored as Maud templates in the Rust sources under version control. I was proud of having a super-lightweight website, but I found creating content for it a tedious process that increased friction to start writing something.
My new idea is to still store the content under version control but in a different format, most probably Markdown or something similar, and then turn it into HTML as a compilation step or on the client side.
I gave up on the idea of not using JS at all as it seriously restricts the variety of tools that are available to me, for example, the said conversion of Markdown to HTML. Another reason is that I was thinking that I’d like to add a forum to the site and use WebSockets for dynamic content loading, or even load WebAssembly code.
I already drew a new logo in SVG:
[image here]
I like that it resembles a mushroom, a brain, black dripping goo, and a mold (mildew) at the same time - this gives me the vibe of a game I have always dreamed of making.
In addition to the logo, I came up with a palette that I want to use. To create the palette I’ve used a bunch of artwork from one of my favorite artists Akiakane (秋赤音) and with the power of the quantette crate converted them to the https://bottosson.github.io/posts/oklab/ color space, and derived a limited set of colors to use.
Another piece of inspiration for the future design comes from MacOS 1-8 (https://www.versionmuseum.com/history-of/classic-mac-os). Particularly I like the clear straight lines, use of limited palettes, dithering, and play with contrast.
Enough talking about plans, let’s focus on the process instead.
Wish me luck 😀.
